Laura Lundell, CS372 Battleship Project Diary
Trello: https://trello.com/b/QGpA2VEH/cs372-battleship

8 Feb 19
Stakeholders: Game users, Loviisa & I, Dr. Hartman
Drafted user stories--
We started getting into the details before realizing we should write down the
basics of the game requirements. [20 minutes]

Initialized Github repository

11 Feb 19
Ranked difficulty of user stories--
Decided on the 1-5 ranking system (1 being easiest) but may consider changing
this system based on how it works with tracking and measuring progress.
[20 minutes]

12 Feb 19
Listened to project presentations from other groups and jotted down some ideas
we may implement--
Questions going forward:
Graphics interface?
Testing framework?
Play against an AI agent?
Leader boards?
Sound effects?
Web based?
Rotate a board?

Other thoughts:
Implement by test driven development -- why do you need a board?
Question before building

17 Feb 19
Discussing how best to prioritize the User Stories and tried to put on our "User" hat.
We often found it difficult to separate the user and programmer roles but did our best to stay objective.
Reviewed Agile Principles to guide our planning.
Decided to use Trello board to organize our work, as a Kanban board and using Agile Power-up option.
We added "This Sprint" to our work categories to implement a feature of development in Scrum.  (3  (3))

19 Feb 19
Started first sprint today and decided to keep it to 3 days long, with the first 2 user stories we prioritized.
Started Pair Programming: Loviisa was the observer and I was the driver for this round.
Loviisa mastered the whiteboard sketches (we both decided we need to own one personally) while I plunked away at the code.

We wrote the test first, but once we got the code to compile to simply create a board, it wouldn't compile with the test.
It's likely a syntax issue that we'll have to iron out.

21 Feb 19
Tried dozens of configurations for the test case for vector--
Spent lots of time debugging and reached out on Discord but got minimal guidance.

22 Feb 19
Created outline for our presentation
Decided to change our board vector to a nested vector

23 Feb 19
Finally got the first test to compile! It fails but at least it compiles.
Figured out I had to create a vector in the test case, set the size to 25 then check if it equaled the vector size created in the function.
Then, we decided to change the structure of the code to make it cleaner, using a Board class to create the board and related functions.

25 Feb 19
Loviisa kept getting merge conflicts so she created a branch just for her diary entry.
Git branching:
git checkout -b 'feature/diary-entry'
The first add/commit/push requires a different push script, but the command line gives it to you on your first push.

26 Feb 19
More pair programming - mostly me coding and Loviisa assisting with things to try, how to implement concepts, and Stack Overflow searches when I got stuck.
We successfully got the board to print but the test isn't working quite yet.

27 Feb 19
Merged the fix/board-test with master. Loviisa showed me how to merge the branches on Github.

Final thoughts:
This project gave an eye-opening on software development and how lengthy it can be.
There was a lot of time planning, evaluating, debugging, learning, teaching, Google searching, fixing merge conflicts, etc.
In hindsight, I would have switched roles with Loviisa more frequently in pair programming.
